**Robotics Formulas for Dublin Robotics Club**

This README file will tell you exactly what each formula means, and how you can use it to enhance your autonomous programs, or even incorporate these formulas in your autonomous programs. Please note that all equations will be bolded, just for ease of use. 
  
_Part One: Understanding what the trajectory formula is, and how it relates to velocity_  

There are 2 formulas in this .py file. If you have cleared pre-calculus or higher, you should be able to understand what mathematical concepts are used here. If you have not, don't worry too much. Just go take a quick sec to look up what sin, cosine, tangent, and their trigonometric identities are.

The first formula I would like to cover is the trajectory formula. The trajectory formula is assigned to variable velocity. In your vcs/ pros code, ensure that your variables are all set to doubles. Anyway, what this formula is doing is that it adapts the original trajectory formula, which can derive the position 'y' of an object at any point in time given velocity, time of flight, a constant for gravity, angle and an x position. This formula is traditionally written as **y=vtsin(theta)-(g(t^2))/2**. This traditional formula works form most cases, but for the purposes we want here, which is to derive the velocity that the ball must be fired at to hit the flag from a particular position, we already have y position, angle, gravity, and x position. Therefore, we still need to derive time in order for us to be able to derive velocity. Lucky for us, x position is traditionally noted as **x=vtcos(theta)**. Because of this, by rearranging the equation, we can derive that **t=x/vcos(theta)**. Given a little substitution, we can plug in this new identity into the trajectory formula in order to derive **v=sqrt((-g(x)^2)/((2y(cos(theta))^2)-xsin(2theta)))**. I know that seems like a really complex formula, and trust me, if you go into the intricacies, it is. But now, given distance of the flag, and how far above your flywheel the flag is, as well as the angle (in radians) of your flywheel and the gravitational constant 9.81, you can derive the velocity the ball must be going at in order to turn the flag. Note that if the scenario you are attempting to achieve is impossible, the number that you will be square rooting is negative, so you will receive an error. This could cause your bot to become stuck during play, so as a cautionary measure, I suggest you calculate everything inside the square root in your code first, then go onto square rooting if it is positive. If it is negative, move on to the next flag in your code.

_Part Two: Converting this Ball Velocity into Flywheel RPM_

That whole part was a doozy! Don't worry, we're out of the rapids. Now it's just a matter of converting from Ball Velocity into the RPM your flywheel must be spinning at. We will be doing this by employing the tangential velocity formula. The tangential velocity formula is really simple! It's just **V=w(wr)**. V, as usual, is your velocity, in m/s^2, and wr is your wheel radius, and for most of us at DRC, that should be 4 inches.. Here's the kicker. W is your angular velocity, in radians per second. Before we can derive angular velocity out of the ball's velocity, we first have to convert from angular velocity in radians to angular velocity in RPM. Since RPM is revolutions per minute, and 1 revolution in radians is 2pi, we can successfully derive that **w=2pi(RPM/60)**. This basically cuts down the RPM to RPS, and then multiplies that number of revolutions by the number of radians in 1 revolution. If we plug that new number into the formula, we can say that our tangential velocity formula is now **v=2pi(RPM/60)wr**. Note that in the formula, the wheel radius is given in meters, but all our wheel radii are standardized into inches. In order to correct the formula, we have to incorporate the inch to meter conversion. To do this, we will multiply inches by 2.54 to convert to centimeters, then divide that number by 100 in order to convert to meters. When we do this, our tangential velocity formula should now be **v=2pi(RPM/60)(wr(2.54/100))**. We're done with the abstract portion of our formula! Now we get into the code specifics. Assume that the velocity of the ball is b. When launched from the flywheel, your ball will be moving at half the flywheel's velocity. In formulaic form, you would write this as **2b=2pi(RPM/60)(wr(2.54/100))**. From there, you can now derive RPM! When the variable RPM has finally been isolated, your formula should look like **RPM=(6000b)/(2.54wr(pi))**. That's it! The RPM output of this formula is what you want to set the RPM of your flywheel to in your code. If you are recoding in VCS or PROS, I suggest that you first test your code at 'cpp.sh'. That website is an online C++ compiler and shell. Run your formulas there with test data inputs that you can test at any 'projectile motion' and 'circular motion calculator'. Check the output and compare it with the output of any calculator. Your first 2 decimal points should be pretty much the same. Even better, just test your data inputs in this .py program. That's about all I have to tell you. Have fun testing your auton!